README.md, before:

# js-rails-routes

[https://github.com/kirkbowers/js-rails-routes](https://github.com/kirkbowers/js-rails-routes)

## Description

`js-rails-routes` is a utility for generating javascript equivalents to the `<route>_path`
functions provided by [Ruby on Rails](https://github.com/rails/rails).  This allows you
to do very similar things in your `ejs` javascript templates as you would in your `erb`
ruby templates.  You can move html rendering to the client and keep it looking very 
similar to how it would look on the server.

For example, if you have a model `Item` and a simple route to list all the items, a link
to that items page (using an explicit `a` anchor tag instead of the Rails `link_to`)
would look the same in either an `erb` file or an `ejs` file:

    <a href="<%= items_path() %>">List all Items</a>


## Usage

To use `js-rails-routes`, first install it:

    [sudo] gem install js-rails-routes
    
### Command Line
    
Most likely you will want to run it on the command line, like so:

    js-rails-routes
  
which will dump the generated javascript to stdout.  Or, if you are in the base directory
of a Ruby on Rails project that already has a directory `app/assets/javascripts` 
defined, you can run:

    js-rails-routes --output
    
This will produce (**clobber**) the file `app/assets/javascripts/routes.js`.
    
You will then want to make sure the asset pipeline picks up the routes file.  Inside 
your `application.js`:

    //= require routes
    
    
### Inside of Ruby
    
You can use it inside of a Ruby program by passing a `String` to the initializer of the 
`js-rails-routes::Routes` object and calling `create_javascript`:

    require 'js-rails-routes'

    result = js-rails-routes::Routes.new(text).create_javascript
    
## Using the Resulting JavaScript

In all the examples below, I assume using the client-side framework 
[MVCoffee](https://github.com/kirkbowers/mvcoffee).  For one, it provides client-side
models that closely mirror Rails models.  For two, it provides the Rails-style 
`link_to` helper function for creating anchor links.

### Simple Routes with no Parameters

The simplest case is a route that does not depend on a parameter.  Suppose we have this
simple route:

    items              /items
    
In your javascript `ejs` template, you can do this:

    <%= link_to("Show all items", items_path() ) %>
    
### Route with one Parameter

Frequently a route depends on the id of a model, either to display that one entity or to
edit it.  For example, given this route:

    edit_item          /item/:id/edit
    
You can either supply an integer as an argument for the `id`:

    <%= link_to("Edit item number 42", edit_item_path(42) ) %>
    
Or you can provide a hash-like object literal, calling the parameter by name:

    <%= link_to("Edit item number 42", edit_item_path( { id: 42 } ) ) %>
    
### Route with two or more Parameters

If you have more than one parameter in a route, you can either supply the parameters in the order in which they appear in the route, or as a named hash-like object literal.  For example, given this route:

    catalog_item      /catalog/:catalog_id/items/:id(.:format)
    
For catalog number 1, item number 2, you can do this:

    <%= link_to("Cat 1, item 2", catalog_item_path(1, 2) ) %>
    
Or this:

    <%= link_to("Cat 1, item 2", catalog_item_path( { catalog_id: 1, id: 2 } ) ) %>

## Dependencies

`js-rails-routes` depends on [Ruby on Rails](https://github.com/rails/rails).

It also depends on by [hoe](https://github.com/seattlerb/hoe) and
[shoulda](https://github.com/thoughtbot/shoulda) for development and testing.

Since [hoe](https://github.com/seattlerb/hoe) uses a `README.txt` file in rdoc format when 
publishing a gem, and github displays a `README.md` file in markdown format, this gem uses
[rdoc2md](https://github.com/kirkbowers/rdoc2md) to autogenerate the markdown file from 
the rdoc file.  `README.txt` is the master. **Do not edit `README.md` by hand!**  In order 
to generate the markdown file, run `rake readme`.

## Developers/Contributing

After checking out the source, run:

    rake newb

This task will install any missing dependencies, run the tests/specs,
and generate the RDoc.

This first pass is very ad-hoc.  I make no claims that it exhaustively covers all 
possible Rails route formats.  If you 
find a shortcoming, by all means, feel free to upgrade it.  I welcome all contributions.

I do prefer that such shortcomings be documented first in the Issues.  I may be working on a fix already.  No sense in two people fixing the same thing....

I use the Git Flow development methodology.  If you'd like to contribute, you should fork the `develop` branch and create a 'feature' subbranch.

## License

`js-rails-routes` is released under the MIT license.

Commit message:

Updated the docs to reflect that the link_to function had been moved to this project from mvcoffee.

README.md, after:

# js-rails-routes

[https://github.com/kirkbowers/js-rails-routes](https://github.com/kirkbowers/js-rails-routes)

## Description

`js-rails-routes` is a utility for generating javascript equivalents to the `<route>_path`
functions provided by [Ruby on Rails](https://github.com/rails/rails).  This allows you
to do very similar things in your [`ejs`](https://rubygems.org/gems/ejs/) javascript templates as you would in your `erb`
ruby templates.  You can move html rendering to the client and keep it looking very 
similar to how it would look on the server.

For example, if you have a model `Item` and a simple route to list all the items, a link
to that items page (using an explicit `a` anchor tag instead of the Rails `link_to`)
would look the same in either an `erb` file or an `ejs` file:

    <a href="<%= items_path() %>">List all Items</a>


## Usage

To use `js-rails-routes`, first install it:

    [sudo] gem install js-rails-routes
    
### Command Line
    
Most likely you will want to run it on the command line, like so:

    js-rails-routes
  
which will dump the generated javascript to stdout.  Or, if you are in the base directory
of a Ruby on Rails project that already has a directory `app/assets/javascripts` 
defined, you can run:

    js-rails-routes --output
    
This will produce (**clobber**) the file `app/assets/javascripts/routes.js`.
    
You will then want to make sure the asset pipeline picks up the routes file.  Inside 
your `application.js`:

    //= require routes
    
Be default, the generated javascript will also contain a fairly simple implementation of the function `link_to`.  If you do not wish to have this function added to the global namespace, you can suppress it with the command line flag `--no-link-to`.
    
### Inside of Ruby
    
You can use it inside of a Ruby program by passing a `String` to the initializer of the 
`js-rails-routes::Routes` object and calling `create_javascript`:

    require 'js-rails-routes'

    result = js-rails-routes::Routes.new(text).create_javascript
    
## Using the Resulting JavaScript

In all the examples below, I assume using the client-side framework 
[MVCoffee](https://github.com/kirkbowers/mvcoffee).  It provides client-side
models that closely mirror Rails models.  The examples will assume the existence of
these client models.

### Simple Routes with no Parameters

The simplest case is a route that does not depend on a parameter.  Suppose we have this
simple route:

    items              /items
    
In your javascript `ejs` template, you can do this:

    <%= link_to("Show all items", items_path() ) %>
    
### Route with one Parameter

Frequently a route depends on the id of a model, either to display that one entity or to
edit it.  For example, given this route:

    edit_item          /item/:id/edit
    
You can either supply an integer as an argument for the `id`:

    <%= link_to("Edit item number 42", edit_item_path(42) ) %>
    
Or you can provide a hash-like object literal, calling the parameter by name:

    <%= link_to("Edit item number 42", edit_item_path( { id: 42 } ) ) %>
    
Since MVCoffee models are themselves hash-like objects, if you have a variable `item` 
holding the model entity with id = 42, you can do this:

    <%= link_to("Edit item number 42", edit_item_path( item ) ) %>
    
### Route with two or more Parameters

If you have more than one parameter in a route, you can either supply the parameters in the order in which they appear in the route, or as a named hash-like object literal.  For example, given this route:

    catalog_item      /catalog/:catalog_id/items/:id(.:format)
    
For catalog number 1, item number 2, you can do this:

    <%= link_to("Cat 1, item 2", catalog_item_path(1, 2) ) %>
    
Or this:

    <%= link_to("Cat 1, item 2", catalog_item_path( { catalog_id: 1, id: 2 } ) ) %>
    
Or this (assuming the variable `item` is a model with both fields `id` and `catalog_id`
set):

    <%= link_to("Cat 1, item 2", catalog_item_path( item ) ) %>

## Dependencies

`js-rails-routes` depends on [Ruby on Rails](https://github.com/rails/rails).

It also depends on by [hoe](https://github.com/seattlerb/hoe) and
[shoulda](https://github.com/thoughtbot/shoulda) for development and testing.

Since [hoe](https://github.com/seattlerb/hoe) uses a `README.txt` file in rdoc format when 
publishing a gem, and github displays a `README.md` file in markdown format, this gem uses
[rdoc2md](https://github.com/kirkbowers/rdoc2md) to autogenerate the markdown file from 
the rdoc file.  `README.txt` is the master. **Do not edit `README.md` by hand!**  In order 
to generate the markdown file, run `rake readme`.

## Developers/Contributing

After checking out the source, run:

    rake newb

This task will install any missing dependencies, run the tests/specs,
and generate the RDoc.

This first pass is very ad-hoc.  I make no claims that it exhaustively covers all 
possible Rails route formats.  If you 
find a shortcoming, by all means, feel free to upgrade it.  I welcome all contributions.

I do prefer that such shortcomings be documented first in the Issues.  I may be working on a fix already.  No sense in two people fixing the same thing....

I use the Git Flow development methodology.  If you'd like to contribute, you should fork the `develop` branch and create a 'feature' subbranch.

## License

`js-rails-routes` is released under the MIT license.
